

    For additional information, help on various subjects, etc., there
are various resources available on the net.  By no means is this list
exclusive:

   alt.security -- high noise, but has some real gems in here.  If
you had to read one newsgroup/mailing list for security, this is it.
If you don't read it, you're endangering your system by not keeping
up on the latest methods used to attack and defend systems...

   comp.risks -- a moderated newsgroup that talks about the risks of
computing, often discussing computer security.

   comp.unix.wizards -- a high noise free-for-all group that has
some choice tidbits of information.  Now that this is gone, you might
check out comp.unix.esoterica, or any of the other weird new names.
*I* voted to keep comp.unix.wizards :-)

   Security Mailing list -- moderated by Neil Gorsuch, fits and bursts
of information that can be gotten nowhere else.  Hard to join the elite
who are on the list, and a long wait for acceptance.  Security programs
can be snarfed off of this list at times.

   CERT -- the Computer Emergency Response Team has a mailling list
devoted to the development of security tools.  As quoted from
their initial mailing:

"The Computer Emergency Response Team Coordination Center (CERT/CC) has
established a new Internet mailing list named CERT-TOOLS.  This new
mailing list is now available.

The purpose of this new mailing list is to encourage the exchange of
information on security tools and security techniques.  The list
should not be used for security problem reports.
[...]
Mailing list problems, additions, changes, and deletions requests should
be sent to:
        cert-tools-request@cert.sei.cmu.edu

[...]
CERT/CC is planning to collect many of the tools and will make the
archive available via anonymous ftp on the cert.sei.cmu.edu system.
A trusted archive service will also be available for tools not intended
for general public usage.

All mail intended to be redistributed should be mailed to:
	cert-tools@cert.sei.cmu.edu

Computer Emergency Response Team
Email: cert@cert.sei.cmu.edu
Telephone: 412-268-7090 (answers 24 hours a day)"
